1. Provide a title block, with TOC and other material, and a link to the parent directory. 

2. Describe who should work this tutorial, "this tutorial is for advanced SWI-Prolog programmers who understand <topic> and want to do <task>.", 
what other material they need to understand first, as well as what tools they need (eg. a version of SWI-Prolog beyond xx, or the example 
programs that accompany the material). 

3. Provide an estimate of the time taken for the tutorial. 

4. Say how to use the tutorial. EG if your tutorial depends on running examples, say something like 'read each section, then open each example 
and run it, and make sure you understand the code' or whatever's relevant. 
In some of my tutorials I refer to the example programs frequently, but do NOT have them listed in the source text. 
This pretty much forces the student to have the program open. 

5. Motivate the material. Explain why it's useful or important. 

6. Review any background needed 

7. The tutorial body - 
This should be *task* oriented. This is how to deal with sessions, this is how to do authentication. 

Each task should provide exercises at the end that show competency with that task. 

Each section of the tutorial should teach one concept, usually how to do one task. Often, explaining why the system is designed as it 

If your tutorial grows large, consider dividing it. The web framework tutorial is a bit past this limit at the moment. 

If you have major sections, consider a larger 'project' exercise at the end, and/or a review. 
Remember, your job is NOT just to present the material, but to get the student to understand it. You need to operate 'closed loop'. 

Every technical term and concept that's used should be introduced beforehand. You will have a lattice of 'prerequisite' dependencies. 

8. Write a conclusion - remind students of the main points. 

9. Thank the student for taking the tutorial. Ask the student to send feedback if something is unclear in the tutorial. Include both my email 
and your own. 

10. Thank those who helped produce the tutorial. 
